Introduce standard data models (#836)
snowplow/documentation: docs/modeling-your-data/running-data-models-via-snowplow-bdp/standard-models/index.md

---

> title: "Standard models"

Reviewer: Same as above — could you add a more descriptive title and move this to `sidebar_label`?

Reviewer: Oh, and a 🆕 in the label

> sidebar_position: 2

Reviewer: Standard models should come before custom models

---

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```

### Overview

> Standard data models are authored and maintained by Snowplow. Follow below steps to create one.

Reviewer: Link to the model list?

> Standard data models are authored and maintained by Snowplow. Follow below steps to create one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Standard data models are authored and maintained by Snowplow. Follow below the steps below to create and run one.
```

Author: I'm going to remove extra "below" => "Follow the steps below to create and run one."

> ### 1. Create a warehouse connection

Reviewer: Not a fan of numbers in headers... Could you remove them? And also make all of these second level headers so that they show up in the right pane?

> Begin by creating a new warehouse connection. It will be used by a data model to connect to your warehouse. To create a new warehouse connection, click on the "Setup new target" button on the Data Models page and fill in all the necessary details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Begin by creating a new warehouse connection. It will be used by a data model to connect to your warehouse. Click on the "Setup new target" button on the [Data Models page](https://console.snowplowanalytics.com/data-modelling) and fill in all the necessary details.
```

![](images/warehouse-connections.png)

> 

Reviewer: Add:

```
:::tip

You might have already set up a warehouse connection for loading the data. Data modelling, however, requires a new connection, as you will often want data models to run under a different user/role and with different permissions.

:::
```

Currently, only Snowflake connections can be created. However, support for other warehouses will be added soon.

### 2. Create a data model

> To create a new data model, click the "Add data model" button. Then, select the data model you're interested in, such as Unified Digital, and the warehouse connection it should use. You can also specify the owners of the data model who will be alerted in case of failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new data model, click the "Add data model" button. Then, select the data model you're interested in, such as [Unified Digital](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-models/dbt-unified-data-model/index.md), and the warehouse connection it should use. You can also specify the owners of the data model who will be alerted in case of failure.
```

![](images/data-models.png)

### 3. Monitor data model runs

> After you've set everything up, Snowplow BDP Console will run the model according to the provided schedules. You can monitor your data model runs on the Jobs page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've set everything up, Snowplow BDP Console will run the model according to the provided schedule. You can monitor your data model runs on the [Jobs page](https://console.snowplowanalytics.com/jobs).
```
